--- 
layout: post
title: Sweet Noise - N.U.E.R.H.A lyrics translation.
---
p=. <iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/11684526?portrait=0&amp;color=ff000d" width="601" height="338" frameborder="0" webkitAllowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen allowFullScreen></iframe>

<!-- more start -->
<table>
<tr>
<td>Polish:</td>
<td>English:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>wiesz jaki to czasto nowa era
to czas ludzi cienia
korupcja drązy
dzielo zniszczenia
ciemnosc jak kula
gwałci, rozdziera
ludzie bez twarzy, głosu,
sumienia
system wyzysku
kastracja duszy
fałszywy bóg ten
któremu służysz
oddajesz wszystko
wszystko i więcej
kim jest ten święty
ze złotem w ręce

ty nic nie nie wiesz,
nic nie wiesz,
i ty nic nie wiesz,
nic nie wiesz,

to nowa era
to czas zapomnienia
chaos i pustka
cena zbawienia
szybko i szybciej
bez połączenia
źródeł, korzeni
sensu istnienia

to nowa era
to czas ludzi cienia
wiesz jaki to czas

naiwny, niechciany,
kretyn przegrany,
kto z głową w chmurach,
kto sfrustrowany,
kto jest na górze,
kogo już nie ma,
kto stoi murem
ma straży nieba

kto? kto?
kto? kto?
wiem że wiesz

ty nic nie nie wiesz,
nic nie wiesz,
i ty nic nie wiesz,
nic nie wiesz,

tu każdy krok,
każdy głos,
każde życie
wszystko w tych rękach
które na szczycie
już święta wojna
gwałt w imie prawa
teoria spisku
rozdarta rana

wstań,
aha, wstań
o, wstań
wstań, wstań

to nowy czas
nowy czas
nowy czas
nasz to nasz
to nowy czas
nowy czas
nowy czas
nasz to nasz</td>
<td>you know this time!this is a new age
it's time of shadowpeople
corruption drills
art of destruction
darkness like bullet
rapes, tears up,
people without faces, vioce,
conscienc
system of exploitation
soul castration
false this god
that you serve
give everething
everything and more
who is this saint
with gold in hand

you know nothing
know nothing
and you know nothing
know nothing

this ia a new age
time of forgetting
chaos and emptyness
price of redemption
fast and faster
without connection
sources, roots
sense of existence

this is a new age
it's time of shadowpeople
you know this time

naive, not wanted
cretin and looser,
who have head between clouds
who is frustrated
who is on top
who isn't
who stands like wall
on guard of heaven

who? who?
Who? who?
i know that you know

you know nothing
know nothing
and you know nothing
know nothing

here every step
every voice
every life
everything in this hands
that are on top
now saint war
rapi in the name of law
teory of consipracy
teared wound

stand up,
uhu, stand up,
ooh, stand up
stand, stand

this is new time
new time
new time
ours time
this is new time
new time
new time
ours time</td>
</tr>
</table>

I don't know if it's 100% correct. It should be.
<!-- more end -->
