---
layout: post
title: Website Jekyllization - Full control blogging
---
I've nearly finished my new "github.com":http://github.com website. The whole idea I've based this website was to have some sort of hub for my apperances on the internet and having one blog to care about, but which separates blog form my photoblog.

Up until now I was achieving this by relying on many smaller and free web services scattered around the internet. I used "about.me":http://about.me/l0ner/ as a hub. I used two separate "wordpress.com":http://wordpress.com/ blogs, one for my personal posts, second for my photoblog.
And this wasn't satisfying really my needs.
<!-- more start -->
Every one of those services couldn't provide me what I really wanted. And what I wanted was full control of what it looked and acted like. I could customize things a little, but not to the extent I wanted. I know I could pay for ability to customize my blog on "wordpress.com":http://wordpress.com/, but I didn't want to pay for my websites at all. 
Actually, some time ago I used to rent server space to host my own "wordpress":http://wordpress.org installation, whith which I could do anything I wanted. But on some day I couldn't permit myself anymore to pay for my webspace. Besides, I don't think paying cash for personal website is a good idea at all. I wanted my personal website to be free.
Besides, even when I had my own server and hosted my own "wordpress":http://wordpress.org installation, I didn't feel like I had real control over my site. I was bound to "wordpress":http://wordpress.org features and quirks, which was a boundary for me. For example I failed to set up two separate blogs in one wordpress installation. I know I could create just two separate categories, one for blog and one for photoblog, but they would still share the same frontpage and posts of both categories would show up in the archive mixed.
And in the end, the wordpress felt too heavy. I wanted something light and really free. And I didn't want to rely on something I didn't really understand how works.

Discovering that I could host my personal webspace inside a "github.com":http://github.com repo was a bliss. Now I could edit my web page in any way I wanted.
Discovering what "Jekyll":http://jekyllrb.com/ is and how it worked have sent me the heaven.

Right now I'm not bound to any CMS(Content Management System) and it's pros and cons. I have full control on how my website looks, and how it is stcructured. I can modify it by writing simple html code, cut it into little pieces in order to perserve space and every time I push something into git, "Jekyll":http://jekyllrb.com/ will take it and put everything together creating static webpages. And static webpages are awfully faster than those dinamically created.
I'm not bound to storing content of my webpage in any kind of database. I store everything in "github.com":http://github.com git repository, and I can access my contents directly form my PC, by cloning the whole repo onto my HDD.
I'm not bound to use any kind of webinterface to add or edit my website and it's content. This was the very annoing part of blogging. I've never found useful the WYSWIG(What You See Is What You Get) editors incorporated into various CMSes(Content Management System) I used. They never worked right for me, and never gave me ability to really control flow of the content. I remember actually fighting agains how the "wordpress":http://wordpress.org generated content of every post. Besides I always found the edit window too small for me.
Right now I can use any editor I want to, and format my posts in any way I want to, either through textile, plain html or mix of both.
My website is free in the Open Source way. Anyone and everyone can view the source of my page, by looking at the "repo it is hosted it":https://github.com/l0ner/l0ner.github.com.
I can choose in which way I manage my medias. Instead of uploading every photo to the wordpress, which media management is PITA(Pain In The Ass), I can choose myself where they are hosted. Be it either git repo, flickr accout, youtube channel of picasa account.
I can design my frontpage any way I want and put there anything I want.

And above everything I like writing html code. And textile simplifies writing posts a lot.

The whole site isn't really finished yet. I need to create template files for the photoblog section, I need to do some fine-tuning on how the comtent looks like. -I need to understand how to get the code highlight working with textile files.- Now it works:

<notextile>
{% highlight ruby linenos %}
def foo
  puts 'foo'
end
{% endhighlight %}
</notextile>

I need to remember to add one empty line before and one after the code, and enclose the code to highlight between @<notextile>...</notextile>@ tags.

And in the end, I don't think this site will ever be finished, now that I have full control over it.

l0ner out.
<!-- more end -->
