--- 
layout: post
title: "Battle: Los Angeles ::Updated::"
---
Since I haven't wrote anything in a while (I'm a really -lazy- busy person), I thought it would be nice to write some of my impressions on "Battle: Los Angeles" game. I haven't seen the film yet, so I'm looking at it from purely gamer viewpoint.

<!-- more start -->
*Well first things first, Controls:*
I don't know who decided the default controls, but i had to remap some things, since they were quite unusable. Normally, in other FPS games, the aim function would be assigned to the Right Mouse Button. Here it was assigned to [E] button. Quite annoying and uncomfortable. I mean, generations of FPS have used RMB for aim function (if they didn't use it for secondary fire), gamers grew accustomed to this and it became somewhat standard, so why change it? Honestly, I don't know and I don't want to know. It's not a really big thing, but some of the more "casual" and "non informatics" players (like my father) wouldn't be able to change that (believe me, there are people like this - vide: my father).

*Second thing: cut scenes.* 
I didn't like them. If they were done normally, not in this comic style, they would be pretty good. Like that they were too static for me. And I didn't like the style and colors creators used. Same goes for sound in them. Too dry, almost metallic, expressionless. I got feeling that or the voice actors were really bad, or they didn't pay them enough...

*In-game graphics:* 
Well, nothing to say here. Nice, and pretty. Done right how it should be done.

*Audio: *
Well, not bad, but not awesome either. I'd say OK. Maybe sounds of the firearms a little too dry as for me. Music quite inaudible in the heat of combat, but I heard some string music in the background and it just had fit.

*Gameplay*: 
Well, as it goes for the gameplay, it was nice experience. Game is quite dynamic, full of combat, so the player don't get bored. But there is one thing that stings me *a lot*. The game is way too short. I know the games today are generally shorter than older games, but this game was surprisingly short. I managed to finish it in 1 hour, playing on the Hard difficulty. Some demo versions are longer than this. Second thing is that after the end it leaves You with "and then?" feeling. The story isn't finished, the war is not over and we don't know who wins, and what happens to protagonists.

Anyway, it was a nice game. Too short, true, but still nice. Good as a break between Bulletstorm and Homefront. But I think it should be distributed, not as a stand alone product, but rater as free film promo material, or a film DVD special content. Selling game that is shorter than some game demo versions is plain blasphemy for me.

_Oh, is it only my feeling, or do I use the word "well" too often?_

p%{color=red}--Update 01- 04-2011--

Ok, so I got curious and tried to watch the movie. Yeah, tried, not watched, since I only managed to see something like 10mins. After those i quit. Why? I don't have seen more horrible movie. It was awful. CG sucked, actor play was dull, and it had (as for those 10 mins) nothing to do with film. Looking now at the film and at the game, I think the game could be worth some money. At least it keeps higher quality level than the film...
<!-- more end -->
