--- 
layout: post
title: Joining the blogs.
tags: 
- Other
- postaweek2011
- random
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: 
  jabber_published: "1297092037"
  _edit_last: "3474632"
  _wpas_done_fb: "1"
  _wpas_done_twitter: "1"
  email_notification: "1297092038"
  tagazine-media: a:7:{s:7:"primary";s:0:"";s:6:"images";a:0:{}s:6:"videos";a:0:{}s:11:"image_count";s:1:"0";s:6:"author";s:7:"3474632";s:7:"blog_id";s:7:"7642487";s:9:"mod_stamp";s:19:"2011-02-07 15:20:57";}
  reddit: a:2:{s:5:"count";s:1:"0";s:4:"time";s:10:"1311321991";}
---
So yeah, I decided to join all  of my blogs (not that I had unimaginable quantity of them, i had just 2) into one. Since this was my main blog i decided to import all posts from my second blog to this one. It gave me some work, since i needed to convert all of the categories and segregate the medias I had on other one, reposting some thing and so one.

While I was doing this I understood (again) that i hate how the wordpress manages medias. It just throw them all together, without giving a possibility to categorize them in some way. Thanks to that if you need to do something with medias you uploaded, you end searching through endless lists of everything you had ever posted. You can categorize your posts, why can't you categorize the medias? It would simplify really a lot of things.

Anyway, I'm 3 weeks behind my posting schedule, since I didn't have really time until now. I need to study, I need to do homework, help around the house, I need to develop photos I made, I need to move forward with my school project and that means doing a lot of research on programming in Qt, I need to translate the thing I need. I just don't have time to post. And when I have time I'm exhausted and I don't have the will to do anything and end resting.

Well, I'll try to post some more this week, since my class is on a trip that I didn't want to go to and it would by pointless to go school alone. Thanks to this I will have some more time to move forward with things I've been doing, to rest some and to post some more.
